The ABC of landslides and how to survive them             Japheth Ogila  25th Nov 2019 12:56:42 GMT +0300 Japheth Ogila  25th Nov 2019 12:56:42 GMT +0300 Japheth Ogila           For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper.      Priscilla Chebosongur salvages remains of household belongings of her relatives after floods washed away houses at Nyarukulian in West Pokot on Friday night. The death toll has climbed to 52. [Peter Ochieng, Standard]  Priscilla Chebosongur salvages remains of household belongings of her relatives after floods washed away houses at Nyarukulian in West Pokot on Friday night. The death toll has climbed to 52. [Peter Ochieng, Standard] Priscilla Chebosongur salvages remains of household belongings of her relatives after floods washed away houses at Nyarukulian in West Pokot on Friday night. The death toll has climbed to 52. [Peter Ochieng, Standard] Priscilla Chebosongur salvages remains of household belongings of her relatives after floods washed away houses at Nyarukulian in West Pokot on Friday night. The death toll has climbed to 52 What is a landslide? What is a landslide?      Landslide hotspots in Kenya Landslide hotspots in Kenya       Kenya Natural Disaster Profile.  Below, landslide hotspots in Kenya: Below, landslide hotspots in Kenya: Below, landslide hotspots in Kenya: Map: United Nations Office Coordination for Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).  Map: United Nations Office Coordination for Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). Map: United Nations Office Coordination for Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). What to do in case of a landslide   If danger is imminent, evacuate immediately. Inform affected neighbours if you can, and contact the public works, fire or police departments. 
Listen for unusual sounds that might indicate moving debris, such as trees cracking or boulders knocking together. 
If you are near a stream or channel, be alert for any sudden increase or decrease in water flow and notice whether the water changes from clear to muddy. Such changes may mean there is sludge flowing upstream so be prepared to move quickly.
Be especially alert when driving— watch for collapsed pavements, mud, fallen rocks and other indications of possible debris flow.
If you are ordered or decide to evacuate, take your animals with you. 
Consider a precautionary evacuation of large or numerous animals as soon as you are aware of impending danger. If danger is imminent, evacuate immediately. Inform affected neighbours if you can, and contact the public works, fire or police departments. Listen for unusual sounds that might indicate moving debris, such as trees cracking or boulders knocking together. If you are near a stream or channel, be alert for any sudden increase or decrease in water flow and notice whether the water changes from clear to muddy. Such changes may mean there is sludge flowing upstream so be prepared to move quickly. Be especially alert when driving— watch for collapsed pavements, mud, fallen rocks and other indications of possible debris flow. If you are ordered or decide to evacuate, take your animals with you. Consider a precautionary evacuation of large or numerous animals as soon as you are aware of impending danger. In case of severe storms do the following: In case of severe storms do the following: Stay alert and awake. Many deaths from landslides occur while people are sleeping.
Listen to local news stations on a battery-powered radio for warnings of heavy rainfall.
Consider leaving if it is safe to do so. Stay alert and awake. Many deaths from landslides occur while people are sleeping. Listen to local news stations on a battery-powered radio for warnings of heavy rainfall. Consider leaving if it is safe to do so. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. HERE. Related Topics West Pokot landslides Kenya Natural disasters