People said the pain was all in my head             Agnes Aineah  03rd Nov 2019 10:53:45 GMT +0300 Agnes Aineah  03rd Nov 2019 10:53:45 GMT +0300 Agnes Aineah   Gladys Maina at her house in Donholm Estate, Nairobi. She is suffering from chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia. [Boniface Okendo/Standard]  Gladys Maina at her house in Donholm Estate, Nairobi. She is suffering from chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia. [Boniface Okendo/Standard] Gladys Maina at her house in Donholm Estate, Nairobi. She is suffering from chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia. [Boniface Okendo/Standard]  googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1498022554617-0'); });    Reprieve then flare-ups    For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. Fibromylagia       Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and Fibromyalgia       Causes of CFS  The cause of CFS is unknown. Contributing factors may include:
Viruses
A weakened immune system
Stress
Hormonal imbalances
Genetics The cause of CFS is unknown. Contributing factors may include: Viruses A weakened immune system Stress Hormonal imbalances Genetics Symptoms of CFS  They vary based on the individual and the severity of the condition. They may include the following
Fatigue
Loss of memory or concentration
Sore throat
Enlarged lymph nodes in your neck or armpits
Unexplained muscle or joint pain
Headaches
Unrefreshing sleep
Extreme exhaustion lasting more than 24 hours after physical or mental exercise They vary based on the individual and the severity of the condition. They may include the following Fatigue Loss of memory or concentration Sore throat Enlarged lymph nodes in your neck or armpits Unexplained muscle or joint pain Headaches Unrefreshing sleep Extreme exhaustion lasting more than 24 hours after physical or mental exercise Complications include:  Depression
Social isolation
Lifestyle restrictions
Treatment and management of CFS
There is no cure for chronic fatigue syndrome. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms
Medications such as antidepressants to improve sleep and relieve pain
Therapy and physical exercises Depression Social isolation Lifestyle restrictions Treatment and management of CFS There is no cure for chronic fatigue syndrome. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms Medications such as antidepressants to improve sleep and relieve pain Therapy and physical exercises Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. HERE. Related Topics Gladys Maina Fibromylagia chronic fatigue syndrome