What you need to know about BBI             Standard Team  27th Nov 2019 10:48:11 GMT +0300 Standard Team  27th Nov 2019 10:48:11 GMT +0300 Standard Team      Kenyans know we need change, bold change  The March 2018 Handshake was a pause in this trend, an opportunity to take another path. It provided a rare window, to rally the country together to face some of our most daunting challenges. They want it built on.
Kenyans embrace the handshake because they know we have to change our trajectory, our social and economic system, and the way we are governed, if we are to avoid catastrophic national failure.
In their daily lives, they depend on uniting to give and receive help. So uniting for change is something they can buy into as long as they know that it is going to tangibly benefit them and their families. Kenyans will unite to change Kenya and the BBI process has shown a path that can lead to a better future. The March 2018 Handshake was a pause in this trend, an opportunity to take another path. It provided a rare window, to rally the country together to face some of our most daunting challenges. They want it built on. Kenyans embrace the handshake because they know we have to change our trajectory, our social and economic system, and the way we are governed, if we are to avoid catastrophic national failure. In their daily lives, they depend on uniting to give and receive help. So uniting for change is something they can buy into as long as they know that it is going to tangibly benefit them and their families. Kenyans will unite to change Kenya and the BBI process has shown a path that can lead to a better future. The BBI taskforce   SEE ALSO :Rise of Oracle Chemicals from the dirt SEE ALSO : Rise of Oracle Chemicals from the dirt  What the BBI taskforce is not   For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. The major challenges Kenyans identified  In the context of consulting on the nine major challenges outlined in the 9th March Joint Communique, Kenyans placed greatest emphasis on the following challenges:
National ethos and values — Kenya is an arranged marriage by strangers, not our parents. We have made it work to a certain extent but now we have to build a respectful and cohesive family.
There is extreme poverty and hunger in parts of the country. Unemployment and underemployment, particularly of the young people, is high. People are living hand to mouth and the future looks tough. The cause is conflict, corruption and bad politics.
Young Kenyans increasingly feel that their needs and aspirations are not being met by the economic, social, and cultural structures in place today. Many yearn for more stability in their income and prospects. They have heard many promises and now no longer believe on promises to merely improve on the status quo. They feel that we must utterly transform how the system works. That is what they expect from this process.
Our politics are not serving us well. Elections are too divisive. They are pulling us apart. Too much is lost from the cycle of 3 years good and 2 years bad that increase our poverty and divide us from each other. What often binds all major challenges is siasa mbaya. Bad politics makes problems worse and invents new ones.
Corruption is greed and it is hurting Kenyans. They want a stop to it. They commend the moves against it that have been made but they feel that a lot more needs to be done.
Kenyans appreciate devolution but think that more needs to be done to make it more inclusive and of more benefit to Kenyans.
Government is spending too much on itself. Public resources should be used for Kenyans and the burden of government should reduce. In the context of consulting on the nine major challenges outlined in the 9th March Joint Communique, Kenyans placed greatest emphasis on the following challenges: National ethos and values — Kenya is an arranged marriage by strangers, not our parents. We have made it work to a certain extent but now we have to build a respectful and cohesive family. — There is extreme poverty and hunger in parts of the country. Unemployment and underemployment, particularly of the young people, is high. People are living hand to mouth and the future looks tough. The cause is conflict, corruption and bad politics. Young Kenyans increasingly feel that their needs and aspirations are not being met by the economic, social, and cultural structures in place today. Many yearn for more stability in their income and prospects. They have heard many promises and now no longer believe on promises to merely improve on the status quo. They feel that we must utterly transform how the system works. That is what they expect from this process. Our politics are not serving us well. Elections are too divisive. They are pulling us apart. Too much is lost from the cycle of 3 years good and 2 years bad that increase our poverty and divide us from each other. What often binds all major challenges is siasa mbaya. Bad politics makes problems worse and invents new ones. Corruption is greed and it is hurting Kenyans. They want a stop to it. They commend the moves against it that have been made but they feel that a lot more needs to be done. Kenyans appreciate devolution but think that more needs to be done to make it more inclusive and of more benefit to Kenyans. Government is spending too much on itself. Public resources should be used for Kenyans and the burden of government should reduce. The solutions identified from what Kenyans said to BBI  SEE ALSO :Why build a dam when you can build a bridge? SEE ALSO : Why build a dam when you can build a bridge?     National ethos ’   We must become comfortable in our own African skin  Strengthen the Ministry of Culture and Heritage which is currently treated as a peripheral government activity.
Replace Boxing Day on 26th December with a National Culture Day for celebrating culture and learning about other Kenyans’ cultures (this can also be done on 1st January). Strengthen the Ministry of Culture and Heritage which is currently treated as a peripheral government activity. Replace Boxing Day on 26th December with a National Culture Day for celebrating culture and learning about other Kenyans’ cultures (this can also be done on 1st January). ’ We should give ourselves a definitive, evolving, and inclusive official history. H.E. President Uhuru Kenyatta should commission an Official History of Kenya whose production will be led by an Office of the Historian resident in the National Archives. We should give ourselves a definitive, evolving, and inclusive official history A full-time focus on ethics — The EACC should be focused on stopping economic crimes, and given constitutional protection as a Chapter 15 Commission. Its ethics mandate should be redirected to the NCIC which should henceforth be renamed the Ethics Commission and its mandate refreshed in line with the Ethics mission, and for it to be under the Office of the President. A full-time focus on ethics Teaching ethics as a compulsory subject throughout the schooling curriculum from nursery to university.
Including teachings of the national values and principles as part of every ethnic culture and particularly as part of the teachings during rites of passage into adulthood.
Implement the current enforcement mechanism under the Leadership and Integrity Act, even as we discuss hot to strengthen it. Teaching ethics as a compulsory subject throughout the schooling curriculum from nursery to university. Including teachings of the national values and principles as part of every ethnic culture and particularly as part of the teachings during rites of passage into adulthood. Implement the current enforcement mechanism under the Leadership and Integrity Act, even as we discuss hot to strengthen it. We must develop real shared prosperity by growing the national cake  Build the economy from the grassroots  SEE ALSO :Handshake has earned me many enemies: Uhuru SEE ALSO : Handshake has earned me many enemies: Uhuru Taxes      Money follows people  Lending to priority sectors   Savings are investment  SEE ALSO :Expect new super alliance next year, says Kabando SEE ALSO : Expect new super alliance next year, says Kabando Keep the Public Service from monopolising all our resources on salaries  Empower young people to have more opportunity and income  Nurture and open opportunities for youth to gain from their initiative, innovation, and entrepreneurship.       Creativity and sports  Identify and invest in special talent and special needs at the Early Childhood Development stage.
Encourage the private sector to form a national, non-profit foundation, chaired by the President, that provides mentoring, training, and support tools to aspiring business owners aged 18-35.
To help young people form businesses, open an advice desk in every Huduma Centre manned by a business development expert.
The private betting industry is leading to hopelessness and greater poverty. The taskforce recommends that the private betting industry be replaced with a Government-run national lottery whose proceeds, as is the case in other countries, are used for activities that uplift the youth, sports, culture and other social activities beneficial to citizens. Identify and invest in special talent and special needs at the Early Childhood Development stage. Encourage the private sector to form a national, non-profit foundation, chaired by the President, that provides mentoring, training, and support tools to aspiring business owners aged 18-35. To help young people form businesses, open an advice desk in every Huduma Centre manned by a business development expert. The private betting industry is leading to hopelessness and greater poverty. The taskforce recommends that the private betting industry be replaced with a Government-run national lottery whose proceeds, as is the case in other countries, are used for activities that uplift the youth, sports, culture and other social activities beneficial to citizens. MAKE POLITICS MORE INCLUSIVE AND ACCOUNTABLE — .  Running for and winning the Presidency —      An Executive President —   Term limit  Deputy President  Prime Minister  Approval by Parliament   Dismissal  Leader of the Official Opposition  Need for a strong opposition  Shadow Cabinet  Question Time  The Role of the Prime Minister — ’  The Prime Minister will continue to earn his or her salary as a Member of Parliament with no additional salary for the prime ministerial role.
The Permanent/Principal Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister will chair the Technical Implementation Committee of Principal/Permanent Secretaries. To avoid the politicisation of the Public Service, the Permanent or Principal Secretaries will not be subject to Parliamentary approval. Their accountability will be strictly administrative and technical. The Prime Minister will continue to earn his or her salary as a Member of Parliament with no additional salary for the prime ministerial role. The Permanent/Principal Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister will chair the Technical Implementation Committee of Principal/Permanent Secretaries. To avoid the politicisation of the Public Service, the Permanent or Principal Secretaries will not be subject to Parliamentary approval. Their accountability will be strictly administrative and technical. A mixed cabinet  The Cabinet shall be drawn from both parliamentarians and technocrats with the latter being made ex-officio Members of Parliament upon successful Parliamentary approval.
The Taskforce is also recommending that the Cabinet Secretary be renamed Cabinet Minister.
To ensure more effective political direction and Parliamentary accountability, there shall be a position of Minister of State that will be appointed from members of the National Assembly and taking direction in their ministerial duties from Cabinet Ministers. These Ministers of State will continue to earn their salary as MP with no additional salary for their ministerial role. The Cabinet shall be drawn from both parliamentarians and technocrats with the latter being made ex-officio Members of Parliament upon successful Parliamentary approval. The Taskforce is also recommending that the Cabinet Secretary be renamed Cabinet Minister. To ensure more effective political direction and Parliamentary accountability, there shall be a position of Minister of State that will be appointed from members of the National Assembly and taking direction in their ministerial duties from Cabinet Ministers. These Ministers of State will continue to earn their salary as MP with no additional salary for their ministerial role. Representation in the electoral system  That the people’s choice, as reflected in the election of their representatives, including in Party primaries and nominations, in a proportional system shall be upheld through fair, free and transparent elections.
Individuals included in any Party lists shall initially have undergone a process that uses transparent public participation in the Counties even before any other vetting procedure is used.
That there shall be the equalisation of representation and equality of citizenship, as much as possible, by ensuring that each Kenyan vote has the same status and power, as envisaged in the Constitution.
Parties will be compelled through the Political Parties Act to be consistent with the Constitution to meet the Gender Rule and other Constitutional measures of inclusion through their party lists. This will equalise both genders in political terms, rather than creating a parallel system that creates a sense of tokenism.
All the existing 290 constituencies will be saved, including the protected seats because they have become key for representation of sparsely populated areas.
Devolve political parties to have strong County based party branches that will allow the people to have the political forums and avenues to hold their elected leaders accountable throughout a term and not just during elections.
The nomination lists through parties should be completed in a transparent process governed by the political parties overseen by the Registrar of Political Parties and the IEBC. That the people’s choice, as reflected in the election of their representatives, including in Party primaries and nominations, in a proportional system shall be upheld through fair, free and transparent elections. ’ Individuals included in any Party lists shall initially have undergone a process that uses transparent public participation in the Counties even before any other vetting procedure is used. That there shall be the equalisation of representation and equality of citizenship, as much as possible, by ensuring that each Kenyan vote has the same status and power, as envisaged in the Constitution. Parties will be compelled through the Political Parties Act to be consistent with the Constitution to meet the Gender Rule and other Constitutional measures of inclusion through their party lists. This will equalise both genders in political terms, rather than creating a parallel system that creates a sense of tokenism. All the existing 290 constituencies will be saved, including the protected seats because they have become key for representation of sparsely populated areas. Devolve political parties to have strong County based party branches that will allow the people to have the political forums and avenues to hold their elected leaders accountable throughout a term and not just during elections. The nomination lists through parties should be completed in a transparent process governed by the political parties overseen by the Registrar of Political Parties and the IEBC. ATTACK CORRUPTION THROUGH STRUCTURAL AND PREVENTIVE MEANS ’  Reverse the Ndegwa Commission  Make all wealth declaration forms open to public scrutiny.
Promote whistleblowing by giving rewards of 5% of recovered proceeds to persons who give information on corruption deals. Make all wealth declaration forms open to public scrutiny. Promote whistleblowing by giving rewards of 5% of recovered proceeds to persons who give information on corruption deals. Protect whistleblowers  Make Kenya a 100% e-service nation by digitalising all government services, processes, payment system and record keeping. Make Kenya a 100% e-service nation by digitalising all government services, processes, payment system and record keeping. Increase public confidence in the Judiciary   DEVOLUTION THAT WORKS  Retain all the 47 counties  Increase resources to the counties by at least 35% of the last audited accounts.
When dividing revenue between counties, use a formula that focuses on ensuring services reach the actual settlements of people so that resources are not allocated on the basis of uninhibited land mass. Increase resources to the counties by at least 35% of the last audited accounts. When dividing revenue between counties, use a formula that focuses on ensuring services reach the actual settlements of people so that resources are not allocated on the basis of uninhibited land mass. Finalise the transfer of functions “ “ money follows functions ”   Changes in County leadership ’  running mate of every candidate  Health Service Commission  County Government spending  Strengthen the oversight independence of County Assemblies   Counties also must grow the economic pie Biashara mashinani  Government should be smaller and invest in the people not in itself  Spend more development not just bureaucracy  The ratio between County development spending and recurrent expenditure should match the national one at 70:30.    
Ensure that financing the development of each and every Ward is done in a transparent and equitable way within the 5-year term.
A number of Ministers will now earn their Parliamentary salaries so Cabinet will be less expensive.
Strengthen the capacity of the Controller of Budget to be able to detect and respond in a timely manner to misappropriation, wastage, and illegal processes.
Rationalise the mandates of regulatory bodies to ensure lack of duplication, and to ease transparency, affordability and prompt service to enable higher levels of regulatory compliance.
Rationalise all government owned enterprises and enact GOE Bill to bring all GOEs expenditures under control with common user benchmarks, independent valuations of projects and value for money audits on completed projects.
Enforce the powers of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to rationalise all public sector salaries in the country and address the large discrepancies in income.
Elimination of wasteful expenditure in National and County Government by bringing established laws and regulations to bear that ensure that items such as new cars or office refurbishments for incoming senior officials follow proper procedure in planning, budgeting and procurement. The ratio between County development spending and recurrent expenditure should match the national one at 70:30. Ensure that financing the development of each and every Ward is done in a transparent and equitable way within the 5-year term. A number of Ministers will now earn their Parliamentary salaries so Cabinet will be less expensive. Strengthen the capacity of the Controller of Budget to be able to detect and respond in a timely manner to misappropriation, wastage, and illegal processes. Rationalise the mandates of regulatory bodies to ensure lack of duplication, and to ease transparency, affordability and prompt service to enable higher levels of regulatory compliance. Rationalise all government owned enterprises and enact GOE Bill to bring all GOEs expenditures under control with common user benchmarks, independent valuations of projects and value for money audits on completed projects. Enforce the powers of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission to rationalise all public sector salaries in the country and address the large discrepancies in income. Elimination of wasteful expenditure in National and County Government by bringing established laws and regulations to bear that ensure that items such as new cars or office refurbishments for incoming senior officials follow proper procedure in planning, budgeting and procurement.   Rationalise jobs within the County Governments: many are overstaffed.
Parastatals carrying out County functions should be either wound up or restructured. This should be synchronised with the implementation of the already completed parastatal reforms policy.
Eliminate replication of job functions at National and County level, resulting in a lower wage bill.
Harmonise pay of the County and National Governments.
Utilise ‘natural wastage’ and a recruitment freeze to lower the size of the Public Service. Rationalise jobs within the County Governments: many are overstaffed. Parastatals carrying out County functions should be either wound up or restructured. This should be synchronised with the implementation of the already completed parastatal reforms policy. Eliminate replication of job functions at National and County level, resulting in a lower wage bill. Harmonise pay of the County and National Governments. Utilise ‘natural wastage’ and a recruitment freeze to lower the size of the Public Service. ‘ ’ Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. HERE. Related Topics BBI Uhuru Kenyatta Raila Odinga