Fast facts: Diabetes, its dangers and complications             Hillary Orinde  14th Nov 2019 11:23:34 GMT +0300 Hillary Orinde  14th Nov 2019 11:23:34 GMT +0300 Hillary Orinde   Jotham Angatia being injected with insulin by his wife, Electine, at their Ibokolo home in Butere, Kakamega County. He has battled diabetes for 39 years. [Nanjinia Wamuswa, Standard].  Jotham Angatia being injected with insulin by his wife, Electine, at their Ibokolo home in Butere, Kakamega County. He has battled diabetes for 39 years. [Nanjinia Wamuswa, Standard]. Jotham Angatia being injected with insulin by his wife, Electine, at their Ibokolo home in Butere, Kakamega County. He has battled diabetes for 39 years. [Nanjinia Wamuswa, Standard]. Jotham Angatia being injected with insulin by his wife, Electine, at their Ibokolo home in Butere, Kakamega County. He has battled diabetes for 39 years.      SEE ALSO :Inadequate data hampers the fight against diabetes in Sub-Saharan Africa SEE ALSO : Inadequate data hampers the fight against diabetes in Sub-Saharan Africa   What is diabetes What is diabetes  For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper.   Illustrated vector diagram of how insulin works. [Getty Images]  Illustrated vector diagram of how insulin works. [Getty Images] Illustrated vector diagram of how insulin works. Types of diabetes Types of diabetes Type 1 diabetes Type 1 diabetes SEE ALSO :The pain of diabetes patients in public hospitals SEE ALSO : The pain of diabetes patients in public hospitals     Type 2 diabetes Type 2 diabetes  SEE ALSO :The emotional toll of diabetes SEE ALSO : The emotional toll of diabetes     Gestational diabetes Gestational diabetes  SEE ALSO :Teacher’s 39-year battle with diabetes SEE ALSO : Teacher’s 39-year battle with diabetes        Who is most affected? Who is most affected?  Morbidity and Complications Morbidity and Complications   Treatment Treatment  How to manage diabetes How to manage diabetes Nakuru residents undergo diabetics screening. Managing the disease in Kenya is a huge challenge owing to a lack of general awareness about diabetes and its complications, and scarcity of healthcare personnel, monitoring equipment and even drugs. [Mercy Kahenda, Standard]  Nakuru residents undergo diabetics screening. Managing the disease in Kenya is a huge challenge owing to a lack of general awareness about diabetes and its complications, and scarcity of healthcare personnel, monitoring equipment and even drugs. [Mercy Kahenda, Standard] Nakuru residents undergo diabetics screening. Managing the disease in Kenya is a huge challenge owing to a lack of general awareness about diabetes and its complications, and scarcity of healthcare personnel, monitoring equipment and even drugs. [Mercy Kahenda, Standard] Nakuru residents undergo diabetics screening. Managing the disease in Kenya is a huge challenge owing to a lack of general awareness about diabetes and its complications, and scarcity of healthcare personnel, monitoring equipment and even drugs. Some of the options but not limited to those listed include:  Keeping blood glucose level under control to prevent urological and other diabetes-related problems
Balancing your meals with the right amounts of starches, fruits and vegetables, fats and proteins
Taking meals in small portions spread across many meals in a day
Avoiding excess sugar, especially in carbonated drinks such as soda
Avoiding stress Keeping blood glucose level under control to prevent urological and other diabetes-related problems Balancing your meals with the right amounts of starches, fruits and vegetables, fats and proteins Taking meals in small portions spread across many meals in a day Avoiding excess sugar, especially in carbonated drinks such as soda Avoiding stress Treatment of diabetes in men involves options to treat erectile dysfunction including injections with hormones prescribed by health experts.Urologists and endocrinologist also prescribe treatment for low testosterone. Testosterone is the male sex hormone key in regulating fertility in men. Facts and figures Facts and figures  Approximately 425 million adults (20-79 years) were living with diabetes; by 2045 this will rise to 629 million.
More than 1,106,500 children were living with type 1 diabetes
79 per cent of adults with diabetes were living in low- and middle-income countries
The greatest number of people with diabetes were between 40 and 59 years of age
Diabetes caused 4 million deaths
352 million people were at risk of developing type 2 diabetes Approximately 425 million adults (20-79 years) were living with diabetes; by 2045 this will rise to 629 million. More than 1,106,500 children were living with type 1 diabetes 79 per cent of adults with diabetes were living in low- and middle-income countries The greatest number of people with diabetes were between 40 and 59 years of age Diabetes caused 4 million deaths 352 million people were at risk of developing type 2 diabetes IDF Diabetes Atlas Eighth Edition 2017. [Courtesy, International Diabetes Foundation]  IDF Diabetes Atlas Eighth Edition 2017. [Courtesy, International Diabetes Foundation] IDF Diabetes Atlas Eighth Edition 2017. Five common myths on diabetes Five common myths on diabetes Eating too much sugar causes diabetes. Fact: There is no one food or nutrient that causes diabetes. Fact If you are overweight or obese, you will eventually develop type 2 diabetes. Fact: Being overweight is a very important risk factor and the only modifiable one. The others like genetics, one has no control over them. Fact People with diabetes can't eat sweets or chocolate. Fact: Sweet foods, if eaten in small portions, can be eaten by people with diabetes. Everyone should endeavour to avoid empty calories (those without real food value). Fact If you have diabetes, you can’t eat any bread, potatoes. Fact: Starchy foods and fruit can be included in a meal plan for people with diabetes. It is the quantities that matter. Fact I'm skinny, so I can't get diabetes. Fact: In as much as people who are overweight stand a greater risk, 20 per cent of people who get it are slim. Fact Sources: World Health Organization, British National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, International Diabetes Foundation  Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. HERE. Related Topics Diabetes World Diabetes Day Hillary Orinde