Focus on manufacturing as Standard group holds seventh transform Kenya Forum             Standard Digital Team  24th Jun 2019 15:44:47 GMT +0300 Standard Digital Team  24th Jun 2019 15:44:47 GMT +0300 Standard Digital Team         SEE ALSO :Standardisation process watertight, say stakeholders SEE ALSO : Standardisation process watertight, say stakeholders   Since export promotion seeks to increase foreign earnings on finished goods, is it time that we established export-oriented industries to process more finished goods and still offer raw materials?
How can we fully incorporate SMEs into our plans for growth while ensuring that they espouse favourable working conditions?
As an agriculturally established country, how do we stand to benefit from increases in export of finished goods once we strengthen our manufacturing industry?
What are the policies we can implement in a bid to lower the costs of power and ensure that its generation is done transparently by all governing bodies thus making us a preferred destination for investors in Africa?
What are the real solutions for businesses in Kenya for Combating counterfeits? Since export promotion seeks to increase foreign earnings on finished goods, is it time that we established export-oriented industries to process more finished goods and still offer raw materials? How can we fully incorporate SMEs into our plans for growth while ensuring that they espouse favourable working conditions? As an agriculturally established country, how do we stand to benefit from increases in export of finished goods once we strengthen our manufacturing industry? What are the policies we can implement in a bid to lower the costs of power and ensure that its generation is done transparently by all governing bodies thus making us a preferred destination for investors in Africa? What are the real solutions for businesses in Kenya for Combating counterfeits? th  Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Digger.co.ke Related Topics Transform Kenya KTN News