Protecting your mobile money from scammers             Sponsored Content  09th Aug 2019 15:28:56 GMT +0300 Sponsored Content  09th Aug 2019 15:28:56 GMT +0300 Sponsored Content   Sponsored Content Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333.  Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333. Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333. Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333.      SEE ALSO :NilePay mobile money launches in South Sudan SEE ALSO : NilePay mobile money launches in South Sudan  The first indicator is the contact of the sender. Whereas the user ID of genuine messages from Equitel/Equity Bank shows the name ‘Equitel/ Equity Bank’, fraudsters will use unofficial numbers claiming to be sending messages on behalf of the Equitel or Equity Bank.
Also, the phone number the criminals use to send the message is different from the one they call you with.
A common message the fraudsters have sent to mobile subscribers is alerting them that their ‘account has been blocked or linked to another account’ thus creating panic. The first indicator is the contact of the sender. Whereas the user ID of genuine messages from Equitel/Equity Bank shows the name ‘Equitel/ Equity Bank’, fraudsters will use unofficial numbers claiming to be sending messages on behalf of the Equitel or Equity Bank. Also, the phone number the criminals use to send the message is different from the one they call you with. A common message the fraudsters have sent to mobile subscribers is alerting them that their ‘account has been blocked or linked to another account’ thus creating panic.  SMS Scams:  Note that: Equitel messages always have a sender's title reference “Equitel” or “Equity Bank”.
The messages will never be sent using personal numbers with prefix that start with 07xx xxx-xxx. Note that: Equitel messages always have a sender's title reference “Equitel” or “Equity Bank”. Note that: The messages will never be sent using personal numbers with prefix that start with 07xx xxx-xxx. 07xx xxx-xxx. Network Scams:  False Promotions:    Steps to take when you notice suspicious activity:  Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333.
Call 100 from your Equitel line for free
Call 0763 063 000 from any other mobile network
Report them at your nearest Equity Bank branch, Equity Agent or Police Station. Forward the fraudulent message for free to 333. Call 100 from your Equitel line for free Call 0763 063 000 from any other mobile network Report them at your nearest Equity Bank branch, Equity Agent or Police Station. As for your PIN number:  Avoid using obvious PIN choices like birthdays or consecutive numbers like 1234 or 7777 or 9876.
Change your PIN periodically.
Should anyone ask for your PIN, or ask you to dial and input your PIN, immediately terminate the call and forward the number used to reach you to 333. Avoid using obvious PIN choices like birthdays or consecutive numbers like 1234 or 7777 or 9876. Change your PIN periodically. Should anyone ask for your PIN, or ask you to dial and input your PIN, immediately terminate the call and forward the number used to reach you to 333. 333 Facebook Twitter info@equitybank.co.ke  We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. HERE Related Topics Mobile Money Equity Equitel