Matatu drivers to undergo physical, mental tests every 3 years in new measures             Cyrus Ombati  01st Aug 2019 08:09:44 GMT +0300 Cyrus Ombati  01st Aug 2019 08:09:44 GMT +0300 Cyrus Ombati         SEE ALSO :NTSA revokes licences of 51 driving schools SEE ALSO : NTSA revokes licences of 51 driving schools      SEE ALSO :51 driving schools now face delisting SEE ALSO : 51 driving schools now face delisting      SEE ALSO :Bruised, battered but spirited matatus SEE ALSO : Bruised, battered but spirited matatus  Other regulations  Carrying out road safety audits in liaison with national road agencies to mitigate infrastructural deficiencies and cater to all road users.
Establishment of county transport and safety committees to cater for county specific road safety needs.
Introduction of a revised vehicle body construction standard to streamline body structures of these vehicles.
Mandatory annual motor vehicle inspection for all classes of vehicles above four years from date of manufacture.
Annual vehicle emission testing for Public Service Vehicles and biennially for private vehicles over five years old.
Issuance of instant fines as per the traffic minor offences rules of 2016.
Introduction of new generation number plates that will restrain counterfeits and duplication. Carrying out road safety audits in liaison with national road agencies to mitigate infrastructural deficiencies and cater to all road users. Establishment of county transport and safety committees to cater for county specific road safety needs. Introduction of a revised vehicle body construction standard to streamline body structures of these vehicles. Mandatory annual motor vehicle inspection for all classes of vehicles above four years from date of manufacture. Annual vehicle emission testing for Public Service Vehicles and biennially for private vehicles over five years old. Issuance of instant fines as per the traffic minor offences rules of 2016. Introduction of new generation number plates that will restrain counterfeits and duplication. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be treated with the confidentiality that they deserve. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be treated with the confidentiality that they deserve. HERE Related Topics NTSA Matatu Drivers CS Fred Matiang'i Driving School