'The moment I realised I'd been conned on Facebook by an expert fraudster'             Mirror  12th Sep 2019 09:56:59 GMT +0300 Mirror  12th Sep 2019 09:56:59 GMT +0300 Mirror        SEE ALSO :Demand for cute selfies puts animals at risk SEE ALSO : Demand for cute selfies puts animals at risk    For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper.   SEE ALSO :Disruptive digital space poses new hurdles for war against child labour SEE ALSO : Disruptive digital space poses new hurdles for war against child labour      SEE ALSO :3 signs it’s time to power down and hit the sheets SEE ALSO : 3 signs it’s time to power down and hit the sheets      SEE ALSO :5 tools that put you ahead when making shareable videos SEE ALSO : 5 tools that put you ahead when making shareable videos     Do your research and make sure you are purchasing your ticket from a legitimate source. You can check whether the website or agent is legitimate by making sure they are a member of the Society of Ticket Agents and Retailers (STAR), and that they are listed as an approved ticket seller on the event or festival’s official website.
You can also use search engines to check out other customers’ feedback, and see if anyone else has had problems in the past.
Think carefully. Fraudsters target the most vulnerable, and if their targets appear willing to go to extreme lengths, including paying more than the original price, they will take advantage of this.
Is it too good to be true? If the price looks too good to be true, it probably is. Fraudsters will often lure people in with heavily discounted prices for sought after events. If you do find yourself victim, report this to your bank straight away.
Never let your guard down. Do not let security measures slip as you try to get that elusive ticket.
Remember, always look out for the padlock symbol in the web address to ensure the website is legitimate. If this symbol is not there, do not continue to payment or enter any of your personal details.
Is it a pay-by-transfer? Scammers love bank transfers; the money goes straight into their account and then the seller can disappear.
By the time you realise that something is wrong, it may be too late. Always try and pay via credit card as this provides added protection over other payment methods. Do your research and make sure you are purchasing your ticket from a legitimate source. You can check whether the website or agent is legitimate by making sure they are a member of the Society of Ticket Agents and Retailers (STAR), and that they are listed as an approved ticket seller on the event or festival’s official website.
You can also use search engines to check out other customers’ feedback, and see if anyone else has had problems in the past.  Think carefully. Fraudsters target the most vulnerable, and if their targets appear willing to go to extreme lengths, including paying more than the original price, they will take advantage of this. Is it too good to be true? If the price looks too good to be true, it probably is. Fraudsters will often lure people in with heavily discounted prices for sought after events. If you do find yourself victim, report this to your bank straight away. Never let your guard down. Do not let security measures slip as you try to get that elusive ticket.
Remember, always look out for the padlock symbol in the web address to ensure the website is legitimate. If this symbol is not there, do not continue to payment or enter any of your personal details.  Is it a pay-by-transfer? Scammers love bank transfers; the money goes straight into their account and then the seller can disappear.
By the time you realise that something is wrong, it may be too late. Always try and pay via credit card as this provides added protection over other payment methods.  We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. HERE Related Topics Social Media Facebook Twitter