I didn’t manage my blood pressure well and got a stroke             Agnes Aineah  22nd Sep 2019 10:39:29 GMT +0300 Agnes Aineah  22nd Sep 2019 10:39:29 GMT +0300 Agnes Aineah   Agnes Anyango talks about her journey battling stroke during an interview with the Standard at her home in Kibera, Nairobi. [David Njaaga/Standard]  Agnes Anyango talks about her journey battling stroke during an interview with the Standard at her home in Kibera, Nairobi. [David Njaaga/Standard] Agnes Anyango talks about her journey battling stroke during an interview with the Standard at her home in Kibera, Nairobi. [David Njaaga/Standard]  googletag.cmd.push(function() { googletag.display('div-gpt-ad-1498022554617-0'); });   Brain clot  SEE ALSO :Symptoms you should never ignore, like coughing at night SEE ALSO : Symptoms you should never ignore, like coughing at night   Comeback  For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper.         CAN STROKE BE PREVENTED?      Controlling high blood pressure. This is one of the most important things you can do to reduce your stroke risk. Lowering your blood pressure can help prevent a subsequent stroke. Exercise, managing stress, maintaining a healthy weight and limiting the amount of salt and alcohol can be utilised to achieve an optimum high blood pressure.
Quit tobacco use. Smoking raises the risk of stroke for smokers and non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke.
Controlling diabetes. Diabetes can be managed by ensuring good diet control, exercise, weight reduction and medication.
Lowering cholesterol and saturated fat in your diet. Eating less cholesterol, especially saturated fat and trans fats, may reduce the plaque in your arteries. A cholesterol-lowering pill can be used in individuals with high cholesterol or in patients with increased risk.
Weight loss. Being overweight contributes to other stroke risk factors, such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
Eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Following the Mediterranean diet (DASH Diet), which emphasizes olive oil, fruit, nuts, vegetables and whole grains, has been shown to be helpful.
Exercising. Exercising for 30 minutes on most, if not all, days of the week reduces your risk of stroke in many ways.
Drinking alcohol in moderation. Heavy alcohol consumption increases your risk of high blood pressure, ischemic strokes and hemorrhagic strokes.
Avoiding illegal drugs. Drugs, such as cocaine are established risk factors for stroke.
If you have already had a stroke before the same measures mentioned above apply in preventing a future stroke. In addition, some medications may be prescribed depending on the underlying risk factors and cause of the stroke for secondary prevention. Controlling high blood pressure. This is one of the most important things you can do to reduce your stroke risk. Lowering your blood pressure can help prevent a subsequent stroke. Exercise, managing stress, maintaining a healthy weight and limiting the amount of salt and alcohol can be utilised to achieve an optimum high blood pressure. Controlling high blood pressure. Quit tobacco use. Smoking raises the risk of stroke for smokers and non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke. Quit tobacco use. Controlling diabetes. Diabetes can be managed by ensuring good diet control, exercise, weight reduction and medication. Controlling diabetes. Lowering cholesterol and saturated fat in your diet. Eating less cholesterol, especially saturated fat and trans fats, may reduce the plaque in your arteries. A cholesterol-lowering pill can be used in individuals with high cholesterol or in patients with increased risk. Lowering cholesterol and saturated fat in your diet. Weight loss. Being overweight contributes to other stroke risk factors, such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Weight loss. Eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Following the Mediterranean diet (DASH Diet), which emphasizes olive oil, fruit, nuts, vegetables and whole grains, has been shown to be helpful. Eating a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Exercising. Exercising for 30 minutes on most, if not all, days of the week reduces your risk of stroke in many ways. Exercising. Drinking alcohol in moderation. Heavy alcohol consumption increases your risk of high blood pressure, ischemic strokes and hemorrhagic strokes. Drinking alcohol in moderation. Avoiding illegal drugs. Drugs, such as cocaine are established risk factors for stroke. Avoiding illegal drugs. If you have already had a stroke before the same measures mentioned above apply in preventing a future stroke. In addition, some medications may be prescribed depending on the underlying risk factors and cause of the stroke for secondary prevention.   These include: These include: Anti-platelet drugs. These drugs make platelets less sticky and less likely to clot. Anti-platelet drugs. Anticoagulants. These drugs may be prescribed if you have certain blood-clotting disorders, certain arterial abnormalities, abnormal heart rhythm or other heart problems. Other newer blood thinners are available in the market and may be used if your stroke was caused by an abnormal heart rhythm. Anticoagulants. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. We are undertaking a survey to help us improve our content for you. This will only take 1 minute of your time, please give us your feedback by clicking HERE. All responses will be confidential. HERE Related Topics stroke Blood Pressure