2019: The year in pictures             Mercy Asamba  26th Dec 2019 10:00:00 GMT +0300 Mercy Asamba  26th Dec 2019 10:00:00 GMT +0300 Mercy Asamba      Terror in the City:        Mary Wambui was killed on January 26, 2019.    Mary Wambui was killed on January 26, 2019. Mary Wambui was killed on January 26, 2019. Mary Wambui was killed on January 26, 2019. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. For More of This and Other Stories, Grab Your Copy of the Standard Newspaper. January:       Joseph Kori and a woman believed to be his girlfriend, Judy Wambui Mungai in court.    Joseph Kori and a woman believed to be his girlfriend, Judy Wambui Mungai in court. Joseph Kori and a woman believed to be his girlfriend, Judy Wambui Mungai in court. Joseph Kori and a woman believed to be his girlfriend, Judy Wambui Mungai in court.  The house that the family rejected in Bahati, Nakuru County.    The house that the family rejected in Bahati, Nakuru County. The house that the family rejected in Bahati, Nakuru County. The house that the family rejected in Bahati, Nakuru County. Woman rejects presidential gift:   Damaris Wambui and her son Dennis Ngaruiya.    Damaris Wambui and her son Dennis Ngaruiya. Damaris Wambui and her son Dennis Ngaruiya. Damaris Wambui and her son Dennis Ngaruiya.     February: Weston Hotel  HardTalk       Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam looks at the wreckage of the plane that crashed shortly after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.    Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam looks at the wreckage of the plane that crashed shortly after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam looks at the wreckage of the plane that crashed shortly after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde Gebremariam looks at the wreckage of the plane that crashed shortly after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. March 10, Ethiopian plane crash           March: Woman gives birth at Uhuru Park      Sharon Mathias and Melon Lutenyo.    Sharon Mathias and Melon Lutenyo. Sharon Mathias and Melon Lutenyo. Sharon Mathias and Melon Lutenyo. April; Kakamega twins mind-bender:   Sharon Mathias, Richard Olukhakha (father), Mevis Imbaya, Rosemary Onyango (Mother) and Melon Lutenyo pose for a photo at their Furfural home in Likuyani, Kakamega County.    Sharon Mathias, Richard Olukhakha (father), Mevis Imbaya, Rosemary Onyango (Mother) and Melon Lutenyo pose for a photo at their Furfural home in Likuyani, Kakamega County. Sharon Mathias, Richard Olukhakha (father), Mevis Imbaya, Rosemary Onyango (Mother) and Melon Lutenyo pose for a photo at their Furfural home in Likuyani, Kakamega County. Sharon Mathias, Richard Olukhakha (father), Mevis Imbaya, Rosemary Onyango (Mother) and Melon Lutenyo pose for a photo at their Furfural home in Likuyani, Kakamega County.  The late Ivy Wangeci.    The late Ivy Wangeci. The late Ivy Wangeci. The late Ivy Wangeci. April: Ivy Wangeci murder   Naftali Kinuthia, suspect in Ivy Wangeci murder when he first appeared before Eldoret High Court on April 15.  Naftali Kinuthia, suspect in Ivy Wangeci murder when he first appeared before Eldoret High Court on April 15. Naftali Kinuthia, suspect in Ivy Wangeci murder when he first appeared before Eldoret High Court on April 15. Naftali Kinuthia, suspect in Ivy Wangeci murder when he first appeared before Eldoret High Court on April 15.     June 1: The Central Bank of Kenya (CBK)   Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu (centre) with the EACC officials after he was arrested over corruption allegations in May, 2019.  Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu (centre) with the EACC officials after he was arrested over corruption allegations in May, 2019. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu (centre) with the EACC officials after he was arrested over corruption allegations in May, 2019. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu (centre) with the EACC officials after he was arrested over corruption allegations in May, 2019. Baba Yao arrested:          July 1: Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore   A hearse carrying the remains of late Bob Collymore leaving at lee funeral.    A hearse carrying the remains of late Bob Collymore leaving at lee funeral. A hearse carrying the remains of late Bob Collymore leaving at lee funeral. A hearse carrying the remains of late Bob Collymore leaving at lee funeral.     July 29: Joyce Laboso    July 22: Henry Rotich and Treasury CS and his PS Kamau Thugge    July 26: Kibra MP Ken Okoth    August 29: John Ng'ang'a alias DeMathew popularly known for his song Niwe Njata Yakwa dies in a road accident in Thika. August 29: John Ng'ang'a alias DeMathew August 29: John Ng'ang'a alias DeMathew popularly known for his song Niwe Njata Yakwa dies in a road accident in Thika. popularly known for his song Niwe Njata Yakwa Niwe Njata Yakwa dies in a road accident in Thika.    The 52-year-old was part of the second generation of the Stetson-wearing, guitar-strumming musicians from central Kenya that are slowly being overtaken by an emerging younger generation. While his staple were love songs, the singer often dabbled in the murky political world, releasing polarising music to rally support for politicians he favoured. The 52-year-old was part of the second generation of the Stetson-wearing, guitar-strumming musicians from central Kenya that are slowly being overtaken by an emerging younger generation. While his staple were love songs, the singer often dabbled in the murky political world, releasing polarising music to rally support for politicians he favoured.    Humphrey Kariuki:          September 13:? The body of Dutch businessman Tob Cohen        September 29: Mariam Kighenda and her daughter Amanda Mutheu? drown        October 12: INEOS 1:59: Eliud Kipchoge     December 7: Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko   Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. Do not miss out on the latest news. Join the Standard Digital Telegram channel HERE. HERE.  #mc_embed_signup{background:#fff; clear:left; font:14px Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif; }
                  #mc_embed_signup .button {  background-color: #d32127; } Get the latest summary of news in your email every morning. Subscribe below 
* indicates required

Email Address *




First Name 



Last Name Get the latest summary of news in your email every morning. Subscribe below * Email Address * *  First Name  Last Name     (function($) {window.fnames = new Array(); window.ftypes = new Array();fnames[0]='EMAIL';ftypes[0]='email';fnames[1]='FNAME';ftypes[1]='text';fnames[2]='LNAME';ftypes[2]='text';fnames[3]='ADDRESS';ftypes[3]='address';fnames[4]='PHONE';ftypes[4]='phone';}(jQuery));var $mcj = jQuery.noConflict(true); Related Topics Dusit Attack Eliud Kipchoge Kakamega Twins