Google is tracking your every move, here is how to auto-delete Location History             Mirror  08th Jul 2019 11:50:16 GMT +0300 Mirror  08th Jul 2019 11:50:16 GMT +0300 Mirror         SEE ALSO :When it comes to disclosing sponsors, your Google Assistant may be mute SEE ALSO : When it comes to disclosing sponsors, your Google Assistant may be mute     Open the Google Maps app
In the top left, tap the Menu icon and select "Your timeline".
In the top right, tap the more icon and select "Settings and privacy".
Scroll to "Location settings".
Tap "Automatically delete Location History".
Follow the on-screen instructions. Open the Google Maps app In the top left, tap the Menu icon and select "Your timeline". In the top right, tap the more icon and select "Settings and privacy". Scroll to "Location settings". Tap "Automatically delete Location History". Follow the on-screen instructions.  SEE ALSO :Google to pull plug on AI ethics council SEE ALSO : Google to pull plug on AI ethics council    Open the Gmail app.
In the top left, tap the Menu icon and select "Settings".
Select your account and then tap "Manage your Google Account".
At the top, tap Data & personalisation.
Under "Activity controls" tap Web & App Activity"
Tap "Manage activity".
At the top right, tap the More icon and then select "Keep activity for".
Tap the option for how long you want to keep your activity and then tap "Next".
Confirm to save your choice. Open the Gmail app. In the top left, tap the Menu icon and select "Settings". Select your account and then tap "Manage your Google Account". At the top, tap Data & personalisation. Under "Activity controls" tap Web & App Activity" Tap "Manage activity". At the top right, tap the More icon and then select "Keep activity for". Tap the option for how long you want to keep your activity and then tap "Next". Confirm to save your choice.   SEE ALSO :7 hacks to boost your online privacy SEE ALSO : 7 hacks to boost your online privacy  Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Digger.co.ke Related Topics Google iOS