Manu Chandaria solemnizes marriage after 64 years — Photos             Vincent Kejitan  19th Jul 2019 11:43:39 GMT +0300 Vincent Kejitan  19th Jul 2019 11:43:39 GMT +0300 Vincent Kejitan   Manu Chandaria and Aruna Chandaria at the Attorney General’s Chambers in Nairobi. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard]  Manu Chandaria and Aruna Chandaria at the Attorney General’s Chambers in Nairobi. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] Manu Chandaria and Aruna Chandaria at the Attorney General’s Chambers in Nairobi.     Evergreen love: Chandaria and Aruna. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard]  Evergreen love: Chandaria and Aruna. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] Evergreen love: Chandaria and Aruna.  SEE ALSO :Manu Chandaria seals 64 years of marital bliss with a kiss SEE ALSO : Manu Chandaria seals 64 years of marital bliss with a kiss   Chandaria and Aruna display a photo album in which their good times are frozen for posterity. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard]  Chandaria and Aruna display a photo album in which their good times are frozen for posterity. [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] Chandaria and Aruna display a photo album in which their good times are frozen for posterity.      A ring on his finger, Mau and Aruna: [Jennifer Wachie, Standard]  A ring on his finger, Mau and Aruna: [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] A ring on his finger, Mau and Aruna:    Civil Marriages      Any of the parties is a foreign national
Both parties are foreign nationals
Marriage outside a licensed place
Parties unable to give a 21 days’ notice Any of the parties is a foreign national Both parties are foreign nationals Marriage outside a licensed place Parties unable to give a 21 days’ notice  Requirements for Civil Marriage by Notice: (Kenyans Only)  Both parties to appear before the Registrar’s to fill a Notice form
Valid I. Ds/Passports are required (Copy and original)
Colored Passport size photos
Death certificate if widowed or divorce decree absolute if divorced;
In the event the Divorce decree is more than a year old or a death certificate is more than 2 years old, an Affidavit to confirm marital status; Both parties to appear before the Registrar’s to fill a Notice form Valid I. Ds/Passports are required (Copy and original) Colored Passport size photos Death certificate if widowed or divorce decree absolute if divorced; In the event the Divorce decree is more than a year old or a death certificate is more than 2 years old, an Affidavit to confirm marital status;  Till death do us part.  [Jennifer Wachie, Standard]  Till death do us part.  [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] Till death do us part.  [Jennifer Wachie, Standard] Civil Marriage by Special License (Applies to Kenyans and foreigners)   Christian/ Hindu marriages by Notice    Christian/ Hindu Marriages by Special License   Marriages by Special License (where one party or both parties are foreigners)   Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Register to advertise your products & services on our classifieds website Digger.co.ke and enjoy one month subscription free of charge and 3 free ads on the Standard newspaper. Digger.co.ke Related Topics Manu Chandaria Aruna Chandaria Manu Chandaria wedding