5 reasons why you should participate in Mshwari 52 week challenge             Correspondent  03rd May 2019 14:36:55 GMT +0300 Correspondent  03rd May 2019 14:36:55 GMT +0300 Correspondent        (Image, Courtesy)  (Image, Courtesy) (Image, Courtesy) (Image, Courtesy)     By participating in the Mshwari 52-week challenge, you are likely to save Sh68, 900 in 52 weeks that is in a whole year. This will earn you a 6 per cent per annum interest. So apart from getting the amount you save weekly, the interest is something to look forward to.
There are hundreds of Kenyans taking part in the challenge; you can follow this via #52Weekchallenge on social media. This community of savers gives support and advice and It’s comforting to know that you are not alone, especially when you have to save more and more each week.  The saved amount will increase your loan limit from MShwari due to your saving pattern.
Experts say that it takes an average of 66 days to form a habit, that’s approximately 7.5 weeks. With the challenge being 52 weeks, you have more than ample time to make saving a habit, and culture that you can carry all throughout your life.
By saving in MShwari using this plan, you know that your money is safe and secure as opposed to saving hard cash in your house where it is easily available.
You get to improve your credit score with Safaricom, meaning your Mshwari loan limit increases and you can borrow more for instances when you have financial emergencies. By participating in the Mshwari 52-week challenge, you are likely to save Sh68, 900 in 52 weeks that is in a whole year. This will earn you a 6 per cent per annum interest. So apart from getting the amount you save weekly, the interest is something to look forward to. There are hundreds of Kenyans taking part in the challenge; you can follow this via #52Weekchallenge on social media. This community of savers gives support and advice and It’s comforting to know that you are not alone, especially when you have to save more and more each week.  The saved amount will increase your loan limit from MShwari due to your saving pattern. Experts say that it takes an average of 66 days to form a habit, that’s approximately 7.5 weeks. With the challenge being 52 weeks, you have more than ample time to make saving a habit, and culture that you can carry all throughout your life. By saving in MShwari using this plan, you know that your money is safe and secure as opposed to saving hard cash in your house where it is easily available. You get to improve your credit score with Safaricom, meaning your Mshwari loan limit increases and you can borrow more for instances when you have financial emergencies.  Go to M-PESA on MySafaricom App or from your sim tool kit
Select Loans and Savings.
Select M-Shwari.
Select Lock Savings Account.
Select Open Lock Account.
Set your target at minimum Sh68,900 or more.
Set period at 12 months. Enhancement has been done from 6-12months.
Set your account to save from M-PESA or M-Shwari. Go to M-PESA on MySafaricom App or from your sim tool kit Select Loans and Savings. Select M-Shwari. Select Lock Savings Account. Select Open Lock Account. Set your target at minimum Sh68,900 or more. Set period at 12 months. Enhancement has been done from 6-12months. Set your account to save from M-PESA or M-Shwari.    For the latest news in entertainment check out Sde.co.ke and Pulser.co.ke , for everything sports visit Gameyetu.co.ke and ladies we have you covered on Evewoman For the latest news in entertainment check out Sde.co.ke and Pulser.co.ke , for everything sports visit Gameyetu.co.ke and ladies we have you covered on Evewoman Sde.co.ke Pulser.co.ke Gameyetu.co.ke Evewoman Related Topics Mshwari 52 Week Challenge Mshwari Money Saving Tips